---
layout: post
title:  "Blind boxes"
categories: [Singapore, blind boxes]
image: assets/images/box.jpg
---
Blind boxes have become a growing trend in Singapore, captivating collectors and casual buyers 
alike with their element of surprise. These small, sealed boxes contain mystery items, often 
featuring collectible figurines or merchandise from popular franchises, designed to appeal to fans 
of kawaii culture, anime, or exclusive designs. Blind boxes are sold in various specialty stores, 
lifestyle outlets, and vending machines, with major brands like Pop Mart and Tokidoki gaining a 
strong local following. The thrill lies in not knowing what you'll get until you open it, 
encouraging repeat purchases for those chasing rare or limited-edition pieces. This culture taps 
into the excitement of chance, making blind boxes a fascinating blend of retail therapy and 
entertainment. Let’s dive in

### What are blind boxes

Blind boxes are a type of collectible product originating in Japan, where buyers purchase a sealed 
package without knowing its contents until it's opened. This concept first gained popularity in 
the late 1980s and early 1990s through capsule toy machines, or *gashapon*, which offered small, 
high-quality figurines in randomized sets. Inspired by this element of surprise, companies began 
packaging collectibles into mystery boxes sold in stores. Blind boxes often feature themed series, 
encouraging buyers to collect entire sets while embracing the unpredictability of what they might 
receive. This format reflects Japanese culture's appreciation for craftsmanship, attention to 
detail, and playful curiosity. The blend of suspense and the joy of discovery has made blind boxes 
an enduring and creative facet of Japanese consumer culture.

The blind box phenomenon spread to China in the 2010s, where it quickly gained traction among 
young consumers. This growth was driven by a combination of cultural and market dynamics, 
including the appeal of surprise, collectability, and the integration of blind boxes with popular 
characters from comics, games, and local culture. Chinese companies adapted the concept, creating 
products with intricate designs and limited editions, which further fueled demand. Social media 
and e-commerce platforms played a significant role in the expansion, allowing collectors to 
showcase their finds, trade items, and purchase boxes easily. The introduction of blind boxes in 
large retail chains and specialized stores cemented their popularity, transforming them into a 
significant aspect of contemporary youth culture in China.

### What are blind box toys made of

Blind box toys are primarily made from **plastic materials**, such as **vinyl** and **PVC 
(polyvinyl chloride)**, which allow for detailed molding and vibrant colors. Vinyl is particularly 
popular for its durability and ability to create smooth, high-quality finishes, while PVC is 
favored for its versatility and cost-effectiveness. Depending on the complexity of the toy, some 
blind box figures may also include parts made from **ABS plastic**, a more rigid material often 
used for intricate details or structural elements.

In addition to plastics, some blind box toys feature **paint applications**, often applied by hand 
or with precision machinery to ensure fine details. Occasionally, additional materials like 
**metal accents**, **fabric**, or even **silicone** are incorporated to enhance the design, 
creating unique textures or special features.

### Why are people crazy about blind boxes

The allure of blind boxes lies deeply in human psychology, tapping into our innate curiosity and 
love for surprises. The concept of not knowing what you’re going to get creates a thrill similar 
to opening a gift, which is inherently exciting and often linked to feelings of nostalgia. Many 
collectors find joy in the process of discovery, especially when there’s a chance to unearth rare 
or exclusive figures, such as **Labubu** or **Lisa**, which have become iconic within certain 
collectible series. This uncertainty and potential for rarity trigger a dopamine rush, making the 
experience both enjoyable and addictive. The inclusion of rare "chase" figures adds another layer 
of excitement and drives repeated purchases, as collectors aim to complete sets or obtain 
particularly coveted designs.

Blind boxes also appeal as an **affordable luxury**, offering high-quality, artistically crafted 
toys at a price point that feels accessible. Unlike larger investments in collectibles, purchasing 
a blind box feels like a small indulgence, allowing buyers to own something unique without 
breaking the bank. This positioning as a "treat" helps broaden their appeal across different age 
groups, from children to adult collectors. Social media amplifies this effect, as unboxing videos 
and photos of collections flood platforms like Instagram and TikTok. People share their finds, 
trade duplicates, and show off their rare items, creating an online community that fuels 
enthusiasm. The visibility of rare figures and the social validation of showing off a complete set 
or rare item fosters a sense of belonging and encourages others to join in.

Beyond the psychological and social reasons, blind boxes also tap into broader cultural trends. 
The idea of **curated randomness** aligns with modern consumer behaviors, where people seek 
experiences as much as products. Opening a blind box is a mini-event, one that’s repeatable and 
always slightly different. For adults, they evoke feelings of nostalgia for childhood 
collectibles, while younger consumers are drawn to their cute designs and the joy of discovery. 
The combination of mystery, quality, and community makes blind boxes more than just toys—they are 
an experience that resonates across generations and cultures.

### Where to buy blind boxes

If you’re looking to buy blind boxes in Singapore, here are four popular spots where you can find 
a diverse range of options for collectors and enthusiasts alike:

### **1\. POP MART Stores**

POP MART is a global leader in the blind box phenomenon and a must-visit for collectors. Their 
outlets in Singapore carry a variety of series, including iconic characters like Molly and 
Skullpanda. You’ll find series spanning different themes, from whimsical fantasy to sleek, modern 
designs. Each series typically includes hidden, rare figures that add an element of thrill to the 
collecting experience. POP MART stores frequently launch limited-edition collaborations, making it 
a hotspot for die-hard fans. Look for their locations in key shopping hubs like Funan Mall and 
Jewel Changi Airport​

### **2\. Action City**

Action City is a well-established retailer that caters to toy collectors with a curated selection 
of blind boxes from brands like Mighty Jaxx and POP MART. Located in major malls such as VivoCity 
and Bugis Junction, the store is a treasure trove for those seeking unique figurines. Beyond blind 
boxes, Action City stocks exclusive collectible series and quirky toys, making it a fun stop for 
casual shoppers and serious collectors alike. The wide range ensures there’s something for 
everyone, from kawaii-style characters to edgier designs​

### **3\. Miniso**

Miniso offers affordable blind box options that cater to both new collectors and seasoned 
enthusiasts. Known for their collaborations with globally recognized characters like Marvel 
superheroes and Sanrio’s Hello Kitty, Miniso’s blind boxes are budget-friendly while maintaining 
quality. Their simple, brightly lit stores provide a welcoming environment for shoppers of all 
ages, with outlets spread across Singapore, including at 313@Somerset and Plaza Singapura. These 
are great for those starting their blind box journey or looking for gifts​

### **4\. Mighty Jaxx Online and Flagship Store**

For a more premium and artistic take on blind boxes, Mighty Jaxx offers designs with a creative 
edge, including their Hidden Dissectibles series. This Singapore-based brand blends pop culture 
with artistic innovation, resulting in collectibles that are both striking and 
conversation-worthy. While their primary sales happen online, their flagship store in Singapore 
occasionally showcases their unique series. Mighty Jaxx is a fantastic option for collectors 
looking to support local talent while acquiring high-quality, limited-edition pieces​

### Top blind box series

Here are five top blind box series that have captured the hearts of collectors worldwide, 
including the ever-popular Labubu:

### **1\. Labubu by the Monsters**

Labubu, created by artist Kasing Lung, is part of the popular "The Monsters" series. This 
mischievous and playful character has become a fan favorite due to its quirky, wide-eyed 
expression and devilish grin. Labubu’s designs often reflect whimsical storytelling, from 
fantastical creatures to adorable seasonal outfits like Halloween or Christmas themes. The series 
thrives on variety, featuring limited editions and collaborations with global brands. Collectors 
are drawn to the intricate details of each figurine and the thrill of unboxing a rare variant. 
With themes like “Forest Life” and “Tales of Winter,” Labubu embodies charm and a sense of 
adventure.

### **2\. Skullpanda**

Skullpanda, an edgy and avant-garde character by POP MART, has become a standout series for its 
bold designs. The character combines elements of mystery, rebellion, and dark aesthetics, often 
featuring monochromatic or muted tones. Popular collections like "Hirono" and "City of Night" 
showcase Skullpanda’s urban, streetwear-inspired look, attracting fans who prefer a modern and 
artistic approach to blind boxes. The series often includes hidden rare figurines with striking 
colors or accessories, making it highly sought after among collectors who value exclusivity and 
unique design.

### **3\. Dimoo**

Dimoo is another popular character under the POP MART umbrella, known for its dreamy and 
melancholic vibe. This childlike figure is featured in various thematic series like "World Travel,
" "Forest Adventure," and "Space Travel," offering a sense of escapism. The pastel tones and 
serene expressions of Dimoo evoke feelings of nostalgia and whimsy, making it a beloved choice for 
collectors who appreciate softer, calming aesthetics. Each series often includes a hidden edition, 
adding an extra layer of excitement for fans.

### **4\. Bunny by Hato**

The Bunny series, designed by Chinese artist Hato, revolves around a rabbit character that 
embodies innocence and joy. With collections like "Bunny Party" and "Bunny on Vacation," this 
series is a celebration of playful and colorful themes. Each figurine is packed with tiny, 
detailed accessories such as picnic baskets, party hats, or travel gear, enhancing its 
storytelling aspect. Bunny’s universal appeal lies in its kawaii (cute) aesthetic and approachable 
design, making it a top choice for collectors across all age groups.

### **5\. Molly by Kenny Wong**

Molly is one of the most iconic blind box characters and a cornerstone of POP MART’s success. This 
wide-eyed, pouty-lipped doll often takes on roles inspired by global cultures, professions, and 
fantasy worlds. Collections like "Molly My Childhood" and "Molly Zodiac Series" showcase her 
adaptability, making her a versatile canvas for creative exploration. Molly’s unique expressions 
and detailed outfits resonate with collectors who appreciate her quirky yet relatable persona. 
Rare editions often come with metallic or glow-in-the-dark finishes, heightening their collectible 
value.

These series highlight the diversity and creativity within the blind box world, catering to 
various aesthetics and storytelling preferences. Each offers its own sense of mystery, artistry, 
and joy, ensuring there’s something for every collector\!

Happy collecting everyone!